Puzzle Slide User Manual

Game Overview:
Puzzle Slide is a game about rearranging randomized tiles of a .pbd formatted puzzle to form an image. There are
three difficulties, two modes, and 10 built-in puzzles. You can even use your own .pbd puzzles by having the Paint
app on your PicoBoy with drawing files on it.

Important things to know:
- You can import puzzles from the Paint app, but only if it is installed. Simply install the app and draw an image.
it will show up in Puzzle Slide.

- You can choose between built-in puzzles, custom Paint puzzles, and color spectrum puzzles.

- You can choose between easy, medium, and hard difficulties.

- You can choose either freeplay (untimed) or timed (timed based off of difficulty).

- If you choose to not render numbers on the puzzle, if there are two pieces that look alike, you will NOT be able
to tell the difference between the two. The built-in puzzles do not have this problem.


Gameplay:
You start in a menu where you can choose the difficulty, mode, puzzle type, and whether or not to display the number.
of pieces on the puzzle piece. Use the up and down buttons to move between settings in the menu in addition to the
left and right buttons to change the selection in the setting. Once finished, select "Play" and the game will begin.
Depending on the game mode and puzzle type, you can use the controls to put together a puzzle. Using A and B to 
pick up and drop pieces, you re-arrange the pieces of the puzzle until you get all of the pieces in the right order.
Once finished, you will be greeted with a win screen, allowing you to view your masterpiece.


Puzzle Types:
Color Puzzle Type:
If you chose the color puzzle type, you will instantly be sent into the game. Your goal is to order the puzzle
pieces in order from 1-9, 16, or 25. In the end, you will see a color spectrum made from all of the organized pieces.

Paint Puzzle Type:
If you chose the Paint puzzle type, you will be sent to a puzzle selection menu. In this menu, you can choose which
drawing you want to put together. Scroll through the drawings with up and down, pressing A to choose the puzzle. 
After a loading screen, you will be sent into the puzzle you chose.

Built-in Puzzle Type:
If you chose the built-in puzzle type, you will be sent to a puzzle selection menu. In this menu, you can choose which
drawing you want to put together. Scroll through the puzzles with up and down, pressing A to choose the puzzle. 
After a loading screen, you will be sent into the puzzle you chose.


Game Modes:
Timed:
In the timed game mode, you will have a set amount of time to complete the puzzle you chose. The amount of time
you have is dependent on the difficulty you chose. If you complete the puzzle in the allotted time, you will see
a win screen. Otherwise, you will see a game over screen, giving you the option to try again.

Free Play:
In the free-play game mode, you have an unlimited amount of time to complete your puzzle, no matter the difficulty
you chose. If you complete the puzzle, you will see a win screen.


Difficulties:
Easy: A 3x3 puzzle; in timed mode, you get 2 minutes to complete the puzzle.
Medium: A 4x4 puzzle; in timed mode, you get 4 minutes to complete the puzzle.
Hard: A 5x5 puzzle; in timed mode, you get 8 minutes to complete the puzzle.


Controls:
A - Pick up piece
B - Drop piece
Up - Move piece/cursor up
Down - Move piece/cursor down
Left - Move piece/cursor left
Right - Move piece/cursor right
Start - Enter pause screen


Tips:
- Try to find the corner pieces and organize them. This will make solving the puzzle faster
- If you are struggling, enable numbers. This makes it easier to organize the pieces

Credits:
HalloSpaceBoy: Original game design and programming